the US says it will continue parachuting
Aid into Gaza despite a plea by Hamas to
stop the practice the militant group
says people have died while trying to
collect food packages parts of Gaza are
facing famine nearly 6 months into mil
Israel's military campaign they are
triggered by the October 7th Hamas
Terror
attacks sin like this are quickly
becoming another Grim feature of the war
in Gaza
humanitarian Aid dropped from an
aircraft over the
territory this time it falls in the
Mediterranean well of shore making the
civilians on the ground even more
desperate we were waiting for the aid
when we were surprised to see the plane
coming and dropping it into the
sea people were swimming to retrieve the
aid but didn't
survive Hamas appointed Health officials
say at least 12 people drowned this week
trying to reach aird dropped packages
another six people were killed in
stampedes the group is urging that air
drops be stopped a plea supported by
many
gazin in terms of the aid one of the
biggest mistakes is that it's dropped in
dangerous places like the sea
some of the people trying to get the aid
have
drowned the problem is simple they need
to bring it through the crossings so it
can reach these poor
people pressure has been growing on
Israel to help speed up Aid deliveries
through the border crossings into Gaza
with the UN warning the territory is on
the verge of a man-made famine
you cannot claim to adhere to these
International provisions of law when you
block un unwa food
convoys when you just last week denied
five missions to the north when we have
now reports of Israeli attacks on
warehouses and the police that are
supposed to help secure this Aid inside
Gaza the UN also criticized claims by
some Israeli officials refuting reports
of an imminent famine I say it and I
will say it again as much as I know
there is no starvation in
Gaza as a groups are desperate to bring
more food into Gaza the US says it will
keep parachuting Aid into the
territory Washington insists the air
drops are just one of the channels for
Aid deliveries and that they should
continue I'm not joining to by Christian
lint he's a spokesperson for the World
Health Organization and joins me from
Geneva Christian we heard people
absolutely desperate for food paint as a
picture of what's happening right now
there in the Gaza
Strip yeah thanks for having me god well
this is unfortunate exactly uh the
scenario um that everywhere um in the
middle in the North in the South people
are desperate uh the food is lacking the
fresh water is lacking I think yesterday
AA said again that right now the ailable
maximum for a person uh per person is
two to three or less than three lers of
fresh waters per day and that's not pure
drinking water that's just water for
everything including cooking and you
know the the rule by thumb is you need
about three liters of drinking water per
day only drinking water so that's that
and Medical Aid is is missing evacuation
missions to the north uh are have often
been denied literally half an hour ago I
got the message that another uh Convoy
which we had planned for evacuating um
critically injured people from the um
patients from the shifa hospital was
denied again so there's desperation
everywhere uh from the food from the
medical supplies from the Sheltering
from the lack of space to go if you look
at ruer a place of more than a million
people now squeezed together in the
tightest always waiting for the
offensive that has been announced for so
long and with no place to go now Hamas
has asked uh the US and others to stop
the air drops but wouldn't that make the
humanitarian situation
worse let's look at two parts here every
single piece of bread every single piece
of medical equipment every wound
dressing every liter of water is
urgently needed so in that sense of
course an airdrop uh is a little Aid to
what's going on but the amount of Aid
that can be dropped in by air or by the
famous uh boat delivery I think the boat
delivery was about 200 tons of food put
that into comparison of a truck a single
truck can carry about 20 tons of foods
so you with only 10 trucks you have that
big announced uh delivery of of a ship
transport for example solved the air
drops are extremely critical one as you
see in your in your uh commentary here
in the in the pictures they drop
somewhere either on land or on sea
people Rush uh people drown
and on top of it it's a rush of the
healthy ones let's not forget that so
those who get to get these these Aid
packages are those who are the most fit
and the most well in healthy conditions
stable ones the ones sitting in or lying
in hospitals in shelters the elderly the
weak they will never get to these
deliveries and they are the ones who
need it the most so it's a it's a
survival of the fittest in the most
cynical way um again an air drop can be
a little middle point of relief in a
very specified situation can be useful
but what we need here is steady access
safe sustainable access with convoys
from the north from the south from the
middle constantly and that will relieve
a little bit what's going on there uh
you touched upon uh this a bit earlier
but let's talk about the health
infrastructure uh briefly how is the
situation now and how are people getting
any basic
healthare
yeah it's it's a desperate situation and
then the word desperate is so
overstretched already because we have
since months we're describing the uh the
health situation as desperate and it's
getting worse by the day if no by the
hour um so we have very few hospitals
working anymore in in terms of partially
working delivering some Aid uh we have a
few hospitals in the north we have a few
health centers in and hospitals in the
South but also with very limited
capacity the big uh centers for health
used to be the ones in the north the big
with many operation theaters with the
Specialties for for injuries or diseases
and most of this is out of function the
Laboratories are out of function so
people get help well if they reach an a
health care center they can get some
basic help very often on Tre being
treated on the floors next to people who
are Sheltering in the the hospitals
under totally unhygienic conditions um
very often with the B lack of the basic
medical equipment or the basic medical
supplies um operations and even
amputations having to be taken um
without any anesthesia an aesthetic
material so really really desperate and
again those who make it to the hospitals
or to the health centers are even the
lucky ones because they made it there
ambulances very often can't get out anym
of the people to help them those injured
or sick or anything cannot even reach
the the the the shelters or the hospital
so again the ones who make it to the
hospitals are actually the lucky ones
and that's again a very cynical comment
chrisan lar they have the World Health
Organization joining us from Geneva
thank you very
much thank
you oh let's bring in hea Tibi who is
the West Bank and Gaza country director
for the eight agency Care International
based in ramala he the US says it will
continue parachuting Aid into Gaza Hamas
wants the practice to stop where do you
stand and is there an alternative to
airdrops um thank you so much for the
question uh unfortunately as we have
seen over the last days over the last
weeks the report that was announced
indicating that almost half of Gaza is
under catastrophic situation and a lot
are already uh uh identified under the
famine uh category C category number
five uh the the the problem with what we
have seen in this report is the scale
and the speed of deterioration in the
situation and we have seen that the
numbers doubled in the last four me four
weeks because of the lack of access of
food into Gaza is air dropping is the
best way it's not it is Saving Lives if
if any any food that is entering Gaza is
saving lives but it is not the best way
to to facilitate Aid into Gaza um as you
have seen as we have seen now in your
report it's not safe to get it it is it
is not equally accessed it is not
guaranteed where it will be dropped and
unfortunately it it is connected over
the last weeks we have seen for
different reasons it is connected with
with dangerous life uh um life issues so
people are losing their life to access
it the alternative is to open the border
with consistent amount of Aid uh uh that
is entering all of Gaza um enough one
enabling environment to facilitate the
distribution to reach to those who are
in most need and most vulnerable ones
including elderly people with
disabilities and women in the north and
in the South now the UN office for the
coordination of humanitarian Affairs has
made some very specific accusations
against Israel alleging it is blocking
food convoys and is also said that there
are reports that Israel is attacking
warehouses where AID may be stored does
your organization have any information
about
that unfortunately our mandate does not
F does not fall into the information
seeking or confirming this piece of
information but what I can share with
you is that for instance what we are
having in care is that we have delays in
in h um in the process the lengthy
process that is taking time in terms of
uh uh checking the convoys that we are
sending we don't have access to the
north so most of our work is done in the
South and even to less extent in the
Central Area uh the unsafe environment
makes it very difficult for us to
distribute it in a more um in a more
relaxed way if I can say more uh uh uh
equality related way the also the third
point that I can share and confirm with
you that the break of Law and Order and
the for different reasons makes it very
different very difficult for the
organizations to receive the eight
convoys and store it so we try to
distribute it as quick as possible so
that we make sure that our our our uh
convoys content is distributed rather
than being
and lost in the in the storage he T
there K International's country director
for the West Bank in Gaza thank you very
much thank
you